Tab Name: FAQs

Overview
In-Person Program
Online Program
Capstone Projects
Course Progressions
How to Apply
Events & Deadlines
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
Our Students
Faculty, Instructors, Staff
FAQs
Explore the MS-ADS Campus
Career Outcomes
Get In Touch
Share
Email page on Facebook  (opens new window)
Share page on Twitter (opens new window)
Email Page (opens new window)
FAQs
Master’s in Applied Data Science FAQs
Learn more about what makes our program unique.
David Uminsky, PhD – UChicago Data Science Institute, Executive Director
Application Process
When will I receive my Master's in Applied Data Science admission decision?
Typically, admissions decisions are released 1-2 months after each application deadline. Please note: Applications must be complete in order to be reviewed and for an admissions decision to be made. Please review the
How to Apply
page.
If I finish my Master's in Applied Data Science application before the deadline, will I receive my decision early?
No, applications for the in-person program are typically released 1-2 months after the previous deadline. Remember your application must be complete in order to go into review.
How do I submit the materials that will accompany my Master's in Applied Data Science application?
Please review the
How to Apply
page.
The application portal for entrance in Autumn 2025 is now open.
The
In-Person
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in the autumn quarter annually. The
Online
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter.
Online
program part-time students may also begin the program in spring quarter.
Does the admissions office allow recommenders to email their letter directly as an attachment to be included in an applicant’s file?
Unfortunately, no. Recommenders must upload their letter of support by using the URL that is sent to them electronically by our online application system.
Do I need to provide my recommenders with instructions?
No. Forms for letters of recommendation, along with instructions for completing and submitting the letters, are sent electronically to recommenders once names are added to the online application.
My recommender did not receive notification, can I resend it?
Yes. If a recommender does not receive a URL to complete a recommendation, the applicant may resend a duplicate link from their online application, or request the recommender check their spam folder.
Can I apply more than once for a start term in the Master's in Applied Data Science program if I was already denied during an earlier review period?
No, you may only apply once per start term. You cannot apply for the same start term, if you were not offered admission previously. If you were not offered admission to the full-time program for autumn, you may apply again to the
In-Person
or
Online
full-time
program the following autumn. If you were not offered admission to the
In-Person
part-time program, you may apply again the following autumn. If you were not offered admission to the Online part-time program, you may apply for the next intake–autumn or spring. (Note: The
Online
program offers both autumn and spring intake options for
part-time
applicants.)
The application portal for entrance in 2025-26 is now open.
The
In-Person
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter annually. The
Online
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter.
Online
program part-time students may also begin the program in spring quarter.
What materials do I need to submit to accompany my application for admission to the Masters in Applied Data Science program?
Please review the
list of application materials
to ensure your application file is complete.
The application portal for entrance in 2025-26 is now open.
The
In-Person
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter annually. The
Online
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter.
Online
program part-time students may also begin the program in spring quarter.
Once I upload my unofficial transcripts to my application, do I still need to provide an official transcript?
One unofficial transcript from each university you attended must be uploaded within the application. An unofficial transcript for undergraduate coursework is still required for the application even if you hold an advanced degree(s). Please do not mail transcripts as part of your admission application; we only require unofficial uploads for application evaluation. If you are offered admission, one official transcript for each university you attended will be required at least one month prior to matriculation.
Is the GRE or GMAT required for the Master's in Applied Data Science program?
No, the GRE/GMAT is not required for admissions.
I took the GRE and/or GMAT and want to include my score(s) with my Master's in Applied Data Science application.
While the GRE/GMAT is not required, applicants can still submit their scores. The GRE school code is 1832; the GMAT school code is H9X-WG-70.
Who is exempt from providing proof of English proficiency?
Please refer to the University of Chicago’s
English Language Proficiency
requirements.
How will I be notified that I am admitted to the Master's in Applied Data Science program?
Applicants of the Master’s in Applied Data Science program will be notified electronically via email.
If I am admitted to the Master's in Applied Data Science program, what do I do next?
Have official e-transcripts sent to applieddatascience-admissions@uchicago.edu.
If your institution cannot send your documents electronically, please have them send your transcripts to the following mailing address:
The University of Chicago
Attention: MS in Applied Data Science Admissions
455 N Cityfront Plaza Dr., Suite 950
Chicago, Illinois 60611
Who must provide proof of their English proficiency?
Applicants to the graduate schools and divisions of the University of Chicago who do not meet the criteria above must submit proof of
English Language Proficiency
. This policy applies to all graduate programs; the score level required for admission varies by program. Only the TOEFL iBT or IELTS Academic tests are accepted as proof of proficiency.
What test scores does UChicago accept as proof of English proficiency?
In order to meet the proof of proficiency requirement, students may submit either the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) internet-based test (iBT), including the standard at-home version or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic  (Note: applicants are required to take the Academic Reading/Writing test within IELTS, not the General Training Reading/Writing test.) Any other proficiency tests, exams, equivalent coursework, certificate/certifications, endorsement from faculty, and/or other measurement other than the TOEFL or IELTS are not accepted. This includes the IELTS “Indicator” test and the TOEFL ITP Plus. TOEFL or IELTS score reports are valid for two years and scores will be considered expired if the test was taken more than two years prior to the application deadline. Photocopies or PDFs of TOEFL or IELTS Score Reports will not be considered valid or accepted in lieu of an official score report.
What are the minimum scores required?
The minimum required score for the TOEFL is 102 overall. Minimum required scores in the IELTS are an overall score of seven. (Note: students are required to take the Academic Reading/Writing test within IELTS, not the General Training Reading/Writing test). TOEFL or IELTS score reports are valid for two years and scores will be considered expired if the test was taken more than two years prior to submission of the application. Photocopies of TOEFL or IELTS Score Reports will not be considered valid.
Where do I send my test scores?
Send TOEFL scores to the University of Chicago: 1832
IELTS
University of Chicago downloads IELTS scores that have been transmitted to our e-download account. Please contact your test center and request that your scores be sent to the following IELTS e-download account:
University of Chicago – Graduate Enrollment
970 East 58th Street, Third Floor
Chicago, IL 60637
The University does not accept paper IELTS test report forms.
I don't have the required TOEFL/IELTS score. Can I retake the TOEFL/IELTS once I arrive in the U.S.?
No, your application will be incomplete without the minimum TOEFL or IELTS requirement.
I took the TOEFL over two years ago. Can I still use those TOEFL results?
TOEFL score reports will be considered expired if the test was taken more than two years prior to the application deadline.
International Students
Which Master's in Applied Data Science provides students with visas?
Only the full-time,
In-Person
program is eligible for visa sponsorship. Applicants who need visa sponsorship are highly encouraged to apply to the earlier rounds.
What is the total cost of tuition for the Master's in Applied Data Science program?
As part of the I-20 or DS-2019 request process, the
Office of International Affairs
will conduct a thorough review of financial documentation (e.g. bank statements, letter(s) of support, etc.) to verify that international students have access to the total cost of attendance which includes tuition, student fees, health insurance, books and supplies, and living expenses.
Is the Master's in Applied Data Science an approved OPT/STEM program?
Yes. Please visit the University of Chicago
Office of International Affairs website
for more information.
Does the Master's in Applied Data Science program offer Curricular Practical Training (CPT)?
Yes. Eligible students must be enrolled full-time for one academic year (or three consecutive quarters) to qualify. Students must also be able to present an employment offer letter to complete the application process. Please visit the University of Chicago
Office of International Affairs website
for more information.
I have worked in the U.S. for more than two years. Does that mean that I am exempt from the TOEFL/IELTS requirement?
No, you must take the TOEFL or IELTS if you do not meet the waiver criteria. Please refer to the University of Chicago’s English Language Proficiency requirements and the
English Language Proficiency
section of the FAQs for more details.
Online Program
If I am a student in the In-Person Master's in Applied Data Science Program, may I take courses in the Online Program? Conversely, if I am a student in the Online Program, may I take courses in the In-Person program?
Currently, students may only take Master’s in Applied Data Science courses in the modality in which they are officially enrolled.
Do I need to be a US citizen or permanent resident to apply to Master's in Applied Data Science Online Program?
No, students do not have to be US citizen or resident to partake in the
Online Program
. Please note that the
Online Program
is
not
eligible for visa sponsorship.
How will enrolling in Master's in Applied Data Science Online Program impact my schedule? Are classes held synchronously, asynchronously, or both?
Classes generally take place on evenings and weekends in order to allow our students and instructors to maintain their professional schedules. The Master’s in Applied Data Science
Online Program
is both synchronous and asynchronous. The same as our
In-Person
program, students are required to participate in weekly, live meetings with their instructors and peers, complete readings and coursework, and engage in discussion.
Will enrolling in Master's in Applied Data Science Online Program give me the opportunity to network with on-campus students, faculty/instructors, and advisors?
Yes. All Master’s in Applied Data Science Online Program students are invited to a biannual ‘
Immersion Weekend
’ where attendees have opportunities to network and participate in other activities. On a rolling basis, our Career Services team will advertise additional opportunities to connect with employers and peers (e.g., virtual career fairs, virtual career advising/coaching appointments, and more).
What value do employers place on the Master's in Applied Data Science Online degree?
The value employers place on the Master’s in Applied Data Science degree is significant. As they hire Data Scientist, Data Engineers, and Data Analysts from the University of Chicago the expectations for technical competence, communication and influence skills, and exposure to advanced Data Science evolving technologies is high. The skills learned in the program translate directly into practice due to the program’s balance between theory and rigorous application experience developed in coursework and the Capstone project work delivered across the curriculum.
Is the Master's in Applied Data Science Online program equally academically rigorous as the In-Person program?
Yes. The
Online Program
curriculum is overseen by the same faculty curriculum committee as the In-Person program. Both programs are jointly reviewed and are held to the same high standards. Additionally, both programs are granted by the University of Chicago
Physical Sciences Division
.
Will my diploma indicate I completed the Master's in Applied Data Science Program Online?
No, your diploma will
not
include ‘Online’ in the name of your degree.
MBA/MS
How do I apply to the MBA/MS joint degree program?
Applicants interested in the Joint MBA/MS degree will apply through
Booth’s centralized, joint-application process
. Applicants should complete the Chicago Booth Full-Time MBA
application
and select the MBA/MS in Applied Data Science as their program of interest. An MBA/MS program supplement will be available for completion within your Booth application. The supplement contains Applied Data Science specific questions that will be reviewed by the Applied Data Science admissions team along with your full Booth application. For complete consideration, applicants should complete the MBA application and the joint degree program supplement in the same application round prior to submitting the application.
What courses will I take in the MBA/MS program?
As a student in the
joint-degree MBA and Applied Data Science program
, you’ll take the equivalent of 23 100-unit courses:
14 MBA classes
9 data science courses
Leadership Effectiveness and Development (LEAD)
Qualified Work Experience, a noncredit professional internship experience
Your Booth courses will be in person, while your MS courses will be online. Most students will earn both degrees in seven quarters—the same time it takes to earn the MBA.
Will MBA/MS courses be in-person or online?
Your Booth courses will be in person, while your MS courses will be online. Most students will earn both degrees in seven quarters—the same time it takes to earn the MBA. A combination of online and in-person courses gives you flexibility in course scheduling, and you’ll earn two degrees in the time it would take to complete the MBA alone.
Are standardized tests required for admission?
As part of the online application, candidates will be required to submit a GMAT or GRE score for the joint program. International applicants may be required to submit proof of English language proficiency by submitting a TOEFL iBT or IELTS test score. The minimum TOEFL iBT score required for admission is 104; the minimum IELTS score required is 7. Proof of English proficiency may be waived under certain criteria noted by UChicago GRAD Admissions.
What are the main differences in programs and outcomes between the MBA/MS in Applied Data Science compared to Computer Science?
The fields of Statistics, Mathematics, and Computer Science intersect with industry domains in different ways. The
MPCS
program focuses on the center of Computer Science, including Software Engineering, High Performance Computing, Data Analytics, and Application Development. The MS-ADS Program focuses at the intersection of multiple fields, such as Computer Science, Mathematics, and Statistics (including Statistical Inference, Linear/Non-Linear Models, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, and Deep Learning). The outcomes for MPCS students include Software Engineer (Developer), Senior Software Engineering Management, Software/Hardware Architect, and Senior Cyber Security Engineer. The outcomes for students in MS-ADS include roles as Data Scientist (most common), Senior Data Science Consultant, Business Intelligence (BI) Director, Data Visualization Manager, Data Analytics Engineer, and AI Solution Architect.

Embedded Video Content:

Embedded Video 1:
Source: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KSVVQFW
height: 0
width: 0
style: display:none;visibility:hidden

Embedded Video 2:
Source: https://www.youtube.com/embed/XS_eAV7NfrA?si=YAwLa5C3CAWLbyOZ
title: YouTube video player
width: 560
height: 315
frameborder: 0
allowfullscreen: allowfullscreen

Embedded Video 3:
Source: about:blank
style: display:none;width:0px;height:0px;
name: gform_ajax_frame_3
id: gform_ajax_frame_3
title: This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
