Tab Name: How to Apply

Overview
In-Person Program
Online Program
Capstone Projects
Course Progressions
How to Apply
Events & Deadlines
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
Our Students
Faculty, Instructors, Staff
FAQs
Explore the MS-ADS Campus
Career Outcomes
Get In Touch
Share
Email page on Facebook  (opens new window)
Share page on Twitter (opens new window)
Email Page (opens new window)
MS in Applied Data Science
How to Apply
The application for 2025 - 2026 is now open!
Master’s in Applied Data Science Application Requirements
The
application portal
for entrance in Autumn 2025 is now open!
The
In-Person
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in the autumn quarter annually. The
Online
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter.
Online
program part-time students may also begin the program in the spring quarter.
Only completed applications are sent for committee review.
Next Application Deadlines:
In-Person:
November 7, 2024 – Priority Application Deadline
December 4, 2024 – Scholarship Priority Deadline
January 21, 2025 – International Application Deadline (requiring via sponsorship from UChicago)
March 4, 2025 – Second Priority Application Deadline
May 6, 2025 – Third Priority Application Deadline
June 23, 2025 – Final Application Deadline
Online:
Spring 2025 Part-Time, Online Only
January 9, 2025 – Final Application Deadline
Autumn 2025
June 23, 2025 – Final Application Deadline
*The
application portal
may close early if the cohort is filled.
Letters of Recommendation
The MS in Applied Data Science program requires two letters of recommendation. We
strongly recommend
that at least one letter is written by someone such as a direct manager/supervisor or internship supervisor who can attest to skills you demonstrated or gained though a professional workplace experience (e.g., leadership, teamwork, collaboration, initiative, management, other).
Note: Letters of recommendation can be uploaded after you submit your application. Recommended sources for letters of recommendation include: professors; supervisors or managers; professional mentors.
We do not accept letters of recommendation from family members, friends, or peers.
Candidate Statement
The candidate statement is a key part of your application. The admissions committee pays careful attention to how you understand and present your aims and qualifications. The application will include a prompt with detailed instructions on the information the program is looking for in your candidate statement.
Best practices to keep in mind as you write:
Do not restate your resume.
Your statement should not exceed 1,000 words.
Resume/CV
The Master’s in Applied Data Science admissions committee will review your resume. We encourage you to take the time to carefully update the resume you submit to us.
Important to Include:
Work experience, including internships and part-time positions in the analytics/ data science space
Major accomplishments and awards
Educational background including areas of study
Professional conferences attended
Not needed:
Undergraduate or graduate GPA
Programming Supplement
Your
application
contains a section on programming skills. Although applicants with limited skills in R or Python can and do get accepted into the program, the admissions committee values prior programming experience. Include a PDF of
no more than two pages
demonstrating current programming language skills.
Examples include a PDF submission of work completed in R or Python. The programming supplement must be shared as a PDF file. We are looking for the following in your code (see below). Please note your code does not need to contain all of the below.
Ingest data from csv
Manage different data types
Use your function for data analysis
Visualize data
Wrangle data
Write your own function
Import libraries
Virtual Portfolio
The MS in Applied Data Science requires short, recorded videos to a given prompt(s) within the application. These short videos give applicants an alternative means to outline why they are a strong fit for the MS in Applied Data Science program.
One video prompt response is required, the other is optional. Each video should be approximately 1:30 min in length.
International Students
The in-person, full-time program only intakes students for the Autumn start.
Only the full-time, in-person program is Visa eligible.
International students are also welcome to apply to our Master’s in Applied Data Science Online program, which does not require citizenship or permanent resident status and does not provide visa sponsorship.
English Language Requirement
Applicants to the Master’s in Applied Data Science program who do not meet the English Language Proficiency criteria must submit proof of English language proficiency.
Minimum scores for the Master’s in Applied Data Science program: TOEFL, 102 (no subscore requirement); IELTS, 7 (no subscore requirement).
Please review our waiver policy
here
.
Transcripts from all previous colleges and universities attended
When applying to the program, only your
unofficial
transcripts are required. If you are admitted into the program, then official transcripts must be sent to the following (note a bachelors degree is required to apply to the program):
Please have your institution send your e-transcripts directly to:
applieddatascience-admissions@uchicago.edu
.
If
your institution cannot send your documents electronically, please have them send your transcripts to the following mailing address.
Please note, if documents are being mailed, we must receive them in their original, school-sealed envelope. If your documents are not received in a school-sealed envelope, they will be considered unofficial. Additionally, if your transcript does not list degree conferral information (degree earned and date of conferral), we will also need to receive an attested copy of your degree certificate.
The University of Chicago
Attention: MS in Applied Data Science Admissions
455 N Cityfront Plaza Dr., Suite 950
Chicago, Illinois 60611
Application Fee
There is a $90 non-refundable application fee. For questions regarding an application fee waiver, please refer to the
Physical Sciences Division fee waiver policy
.
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
The program awards merit-based scholarships. Read more about
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
.
Meet your Admissions Counselor
Daniel Truesdale, MPP
Associate Director of Recruitment
Daniel Truesdale serves as an enrollment advisor for the Master’s Applied Data Science in-person and online programs. A graduate from the Harris…
Learn more about Daniel
Start My App
Schedule an Appointment
Get in Touch
Before we get back to you, please check to see if your question has already been answered on our
FAQs page.
Apply Today
The application for entrance in Autumn 2025 is open!

Embedded Video Content:

Embedded Video 1:
Source: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KSVVQFW
height: 0
width: 0
style: display:none;visibility:hidden

Embedded Video 2:
Source: about:blank
style: display:none;width:0px;height:0px;
name: gform_ajax_frame_3
id: gform_ajax_frame_3
title: This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
