Tab Name: MS_ADS_Campus

Overview
In-Person Program
Online Program
Capstone Projects
Course Progressions
How to Apply
Events & Deadlines
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
Our Students
Faculty, Instructors, Staff
FAQs
Explore the MS-ADS Campus
Career Outcomes
Get In Touch
Share
Email page on Facebook  (opens new window)
Share page on Twitter (opens new window)
Email Page (opens new window)
Explore the MS-ADS Campus
Welcome to the University of Chicago’s MS in Applied Data Science program page! Take a look at our interactive map and virtual tour and discover what awaits you in the MS in Applied Data Science program at the University of Chicago. Additionally, here’s a
link
to explore common neighborhoods UChicago graduate students live in. If you would like more information,
UChicagoGRAD
is here to guide you.
Here’s what you can expect:
Campus Location: Our campus is strategically situated at the NBC Tower and Gleacher Center in downtown Chicago’s Streeterville neighborhood. These buildings will serve as the backdrop for your data science journey.
Data Science Institute: Located within Hyde Park campus, the DSI executes the University of Chicago’s bold, innovative vision of data science as an evolving discipline. Alongside other education programs and initiatives, the MS-ADS program enacts the DSI’s commitment to data science education as a conduit for real-world impact.
Chicago Landmarks: Beyond the classroom, discover Chicago’s renowned landmarks. Visit the Art Institute of Chicago, marvel at the Cloud Gate (The Bean) in Millennium Park, or catch a show at the historic Chicago Theatre. The city’s vibrant arts, music, and theater scene awaits you.
UChicago Shuttle: Seamlessly navigate to and from the downtown and Hyde Park campuses using the convenient (and free) UGO shuttle service.
Virtual Tour
Check out the MS in Applied Data Science campus with our virtual tour. The tour below highlights two of our classrooms, merging cutting-edge innovation with top-tier education. Additionally, the tour includes a view of the student lounge, a space designed for relaxation and collaborative study.
Take the virtual tour today to get a sense of what it’s like to be a student in the MS in Applied Data Science program.

Embedded Video Content:

Embedded Video 1:
Source: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KSVVQFW
height: 0
width: 0
style: display:none;visibility:hidden

Embedded Video 2:
Source: https://viewer.mapme.com/1b25ecc4-d631-4b58-b519-a4e493d7dc8b
style: min-height: 90vh; max-height: 90vh; border: 1px solid lightgrey; border-radius: 2px;
width: 100%
frameborder: 0
scrolling: no
allowfullscreen: allowfullscreen

Embedded Video 3:
Source: about:blank
style: display:none;width:0px;height:0px;
name: gform_ajax_frame_3
id: gform_ajax_frame_3
title: This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
