Tab Name: Tuition_Fees_Aid

Overview
In-Person Program
Online Program
Capstone Projects
Course Progressions
How to Apply
Events & Deadlines
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
Our Students
Faculty, Instructors, Staff
FAQs
Explore the MS-ADS Campus
Career Outcomes
Get In Touch
Share
Email page on Facebook  (opens new window)
Share page on Twitter (opens new window)
Email Page (opens new window)
MS in Applied Data Science
Tuition, Fees, & Aid
Program Tuition
Tuition and course fees displayed are for Summer 2024, Autumn 2024, Winter 2025, and Spring 2025. Visit the
Office of the University Bursar website
for information on quarterly and occasional fees, as well as information about tuition rates.
Tuition for the MS in Applied Data Science program: $5,967 per course/$71,604 total tuition**
Program Enrollment Deposit (non-refundable): $1,500 (credited toward your first quarter’s tuition balance)
* Enrolling in a program of study includes additional costs beyond the tuition listed here. For a full list of direct and indirect expenses associated with the cost of attendance, please visit the
Cost of Attendance
page of the Graduate Financial Aid Office website.
Note: Tuition is expected to increase 3-7% per year.
** The program awards merit-based scholarships.
Noncredit Courses
Career Seminar (required unless eligible to waive): $0
Introduction to Statistical Concepts (optional): $0
R Foundational Course (optional): $0
Python Foundational Course (optional): $0
Advanced Linear Algebra for Machine Learning (optional): $0
The Data Science Institute Scholarship
The MS in Applied Data Science program offers partial tuition scholarships to top applicants. These scholarships do not require a separate application but it is recommended that candidates submit their applications ahead of the early deadline to maximize their chances of securing a scholarship.
Other Scholarships
Students are encouraged to investigate scholarships offered through various civic and professional organizations, foundations and state agencies. One place to search for scholarships is the
financial aid information web page
sponsored by the National Association of Student Aid Administration.
Financial Aid
Merit scholarships are available for eligible applicants. Once you apply to the program, you will be automatically considered for a scholarship. Early applications are highly encouraged.
In addition, if you are interested in financial aid to help finance your graduate education, once admitted, you will work with the University of Chicago’s Student Loan Administration office.
To understand the types of financial assistance available and to gather additional information, please visit the
Graduate Aid page
. For international student funding options, please visit the
International Student Funding Options page
.
To find out if you are eligible for federal loans, please visit our
Aid Eligibility page
. We have administrative systems in place to assist students in applying for financial aid upon admission to programs. Please visit our Tuition, Financing, and Billing page for more information.
For information and assistance with employer tuition benefits, please visit the
website of the Bursar
.
If you are interested in financial aid through student employment, please visit the
Student Employment website
.
Visit our
FAQ
page for additional information.
Start Your Application
The application for entrance in 2025-26 will open in September 2024.
The
In-Person
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter annually. The
Online
program admits full- and part-time students for entrance in autumn quarter.
Online
program part-time students may also begin the program in spring quarter.

Embedded Video Content:

Embedded Video 1:
Source: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KSVVQFW
height: 0
width: 0
style: display:none;visibility:hidden

Embedded Video 2:
Source: about:blank
style: display:none;width:0px;height:0px;
name: gform_ajax_frame_3
id: gform_ajax_frame_3
title: This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
